Debbie Rogers better known as Aisha and
her family were devout Christians her
family were strict Christians with whom
Rogers regularly attended Salvation Army
meetings when all the other teenagers in
Britain were kissing their
george-michael posters good night
Rogers had pictures of Jess upon her
wall and yet she found that Christianity
was not enough there were too many
unanswered questions and she felt
dissatisfied with the lack of discipline
structure for her beliefs
Aisha says there had to be more for me
to obey God than just doing prayers when
I felt like it
Aisha had first seen her future husband
Mohamed when she was aged 10 years and
as a regular customer at their store run
by his family she often saw him pray
Aisha recalls there is satisfaction and
peace in what he did so I asked him
about that he said he was a Muslim I
said what is a Muslim then with the help
of Mohammed she began looking deeper
into Islam at the age of 17 she has read
the entire Quran in Arabic she made the
decision to convert to Islam at the age
of 16 years despite her conversion
however Mohammed's parents were against
their marrying they saw her as a Western
woman who would lead their eldest son
astray and give the family a bad name
nevertheless the couple married in the
local mosque Ayesha wore a dress
hand-sewn by Muhammad's mother and
sisters who sneaked into the ceremony
against the wishes of his father who
refused to attend ayisha's parents
Michael and Marjorie Rogers though it
did attend the wedding were more
concerned with the clothes their
daughter was now wearing and what the
neighbors would think six years later
Aisha
embarked on a mission
to convert them and the rest of her
family she recalls my husband and I
worked on my mom and dad telling them
about Islam and they saw the changes in
me like I stopped disrespecting and
talking back her mother soon followed in
her footsteps
Marjorie Rogers changed her name to
samaya
and became a devout Muslim she wore the
hijab and did her prayers on time and
nothing ever mattered to her except her
connections with God Ayesha spa they
proved to be more difficult to convert
so she acts the help of her newly
converted mother my mom and I used to
talk to my father about Islam and we
were sitting in the sofa in the kitchen
one day and he said what are the words
you say when you become a Muslim we were
overwhelmed with joy when he decided to
become a Muslim three years later
Ayesha's brother converted then his wife
and children followed followed by her
sister's son it didn't stop there
her family converted Aisha turned her
attention to her neighbors every Monday
for the past 13 years
Ayesha has held classes in Islam for
Scottish women so far she has helped to
convert over 30 the women come from
different types of backgrounds Trudi a
lecturer at the University of Glasgow
and a former Catholic attended Ayesha's
classes purely because she was
commissioned to carry out some research
but after six months of classes she
converted deciding that Christianity was
riddled with logical inconsistencies her
husband Muhammad does not seem so driven
to convert Scottish lads into Muslim
brothers he occasionally helps out in
the family restaurant but his main aim
in life is to ensure the couple's five
children
grow up as Muslims I can honestly say I
have never regretted it
Ayesha says of her conversion to Islam
every marriage has its ups and downs and
sometimes you need something to pull you
out of any hardship but the Prophet
peace be upon him said every hardship
has an ease so when you're going through
a difficult stage you work for that ease
to come Mohammed is more romantic I feel
we have known each other for centuries
and must never part from one another
according to Islam you are not just
partners for life you can be partners in
heaven as well for ever it's a beautiful
thing